= Contributing to Laika

The most recent development documentation for Laika (based on CCHIT/laika) is
always available at: http://rdoc.info/projects/CCHIT/laika. You can also generate
the HTML docs yourself using YARD. See the README.

Development is managed using the Git source control system. A good source of
information on Git usage is the GitHub guides: http://github.com/guides/home

== For GitHub users:

The easiest way to get a patch reviewed and approved quickly is to fork from
the main Laika repository on GitHub: http://github.com/CCHIT/laika

After you make your changes and push, you can send a pull request and your 
changes will be reviewed and possibly merged.

== For everyone else:

 $ git clone git://github.com/CCHIT/laika.git
 $ cd laika
 $ git checkout -b my_changes
 $ <hack hack hack>
 $ git commit -a
 $ <maybe some more hacking>
 $ git commit -a
 $ git pull origin master
 $ git merge master
 $ git format-patch --stdout master > my_changes.patch

Send your patch to the developer list: dev@projectlaika.org

= Running Tests

If the tests do not pass with your patch applied it will be rejected. Make
sure the tests pass before you submit any changes.

== Environment

Laika uses Saxon (http://saxon.sourceforge.net/) to handle XML Schema
validation and XSLT. For this to function properly, the Saxon jars must be set
in a CLASSPATH environment variable. 

Navigate to the root of your Laika project and run:

 $ source bin/laika_env.sh

As an alternative, you may create CLASSPATH environment variable as part of the
user's profile.

== Running Individual Specs

Sometimes it's more convenient to run individual spec files:

 $ jruby -S spec <specfile>

Remember to run the entire suite before pushing any changes:

 $ jruby -S rake spec

== RCov Test Coverage

It's possible to get RCov working in jruby:

 $ git clone git://github.com/spicycode/rcov.git
 $ cd rcov
 $ jruby setup.rb config
 $ jruby setup.rb setup
 $ jruby setup.rb install
 $ cd <laika_project_dir>
 $ jruby -S rake spec:rcov

